In this lecture, we take a look at Test G, a third class.
So the test, Angie asserts, are the most frequently used methods in Test n g.
Test and G asserts are used to decide whether the test was successful or not, along with the exceptions.
So far we have seen j unit asserts and tests in G asserts are very similar.
But there are a few reasons we use test in G and I explain the reasons on the next slide.
The key thing to understand at this point is that testing has its own research tools.
On this slide, we look at G unit versus test n g.
So both frameworks have parameter wise tests.
Timeout features an exception tests, and both frameworks have several similarities.
But testing has some more advanced features, and it's possible to do more than just unit testing.
So this table explains some of the key differences.
So J units is often installed by default in your I.D., whereas test in G must be installed by the user.
J.
Unit configuration is done only from the job of test classes where Test N G has access to the test in
small file which can store the configuration.
J units has no group functionality where testing allows you to create groups of tests that belong to
different classes through the use of the test inject smell.
J unit has no dependency functionality, but test and G has dependency tests and we can use commands
like we've seen using.
Depends on method j.
Unit needs to install a reporting tool where test then g has by default.
H html reports are generated when the tests are executed.
J unit has a limited list but still useful list of annotations where tests and G has a more extensive
list of usable annotations.
So the key thing to remember is that we are using tests, testing frameworks going forward and will
be used in the test g assert tools instead of the j unit search tools.
They work in a very similar way.
Its main purpose is to determine if a test step has passed or failed.
And when we import, this class will be using the one from the test engine library.
So let's see an example.
In Eclipse.
I am going to simply copy the class in the last lecture and paste it.
Given the name of this new class of L15 for lecture 15 and I'm going to call it test energy assert and
then click.
Okay.
Lingard's opened that class, and the first thing I'm going to do is simply remove this enabled equals
false from the last lecture.
So all I'm going to do in this lecture is show you the use of the test n g asset class.
And my plan is to simply force fail this particular test.
And I can do this by making some room here and writing assert with a capital A and in dot.
And you'll see that I've got a list of usable methods.
But if we scroll to our right, we can see that these belong to J Unit and I want to use the assert
and test n g.
So if I hover over the word assert, you'll see that I'm given an option to import it from org dot test
n g.
So this is the one I want to use.
So it's important that you might that you make sure to select the assert from the test in G.
By doing so.
If I go back and write Dot again, you'll see that I'm given access to a number of methods, but I don't
belong to J Unit.
These are assert methods that belong to test in G.
Now do not be put off by a number of methods here.
We are going to use very few of these and we'll start using these more often as we start developing
our framework.
But for this particular lecture, all I want to do is force this test and I can do that by selecting
fail.
So assert fail.
Now, if I run this test by saving it and then right click in to run it.
Let's see what happens.
So it's gone to the login page on the store and it's entered a password.
And if I go back to Eclipse.
You'll see that one test has passed and one has failed.
So this one has passed, but this one here has failed.
And if I look at the console.
You'll find the reason it failed was because test and assert fail has been output.
And the reason for that is that this method will fail the test.
So the key thing to remember from this lecture is that we're using the test engine assert class, and
I can confirm that by going to the top of this class and expanding the import window and you'll see
that test energy assert is listed.
So we'll be using tests, N.G. asserts.
Going forward, the next course.
Thank you for watching.